---
layout: post
title:  "Club Mate"
date:   2017-02-15 09:56:36 +0000
categories: project
number: three
---

An app designed to bring people together through a shared interest in an event. My role in the project was mainly on the back end. I was in charge of server side authentication using BCrypt as well as implementing a request/accept system for the events. We worked well as a group, making sure to have regular stand-ups to discuss progress and what tasks we were working on.

#### Visit the site here: <a class="text-accent no-underline" href="https://clubmate-wdi.herokuapp.com/">ClubMate</a>

### TEAM:

REMYCE
LUCA
SARAH
TOM
CHARLIE

### Introduction

For this project we were set a task to encapsulate everything we had done into a MEAN stack using restful routes and any other cool bits that we could think of.

After several rounds of brainstorms in the classroom, pub and elsewhere we came together and decided that focusing our energy on an app that brings people together around a common theme would be nice.

### Idea skeleton:

A user can post an event they intend on attending, which becomes public and allows for other users that might be interesed in joining to browse the selection of events.

The working example we used was Luca, who was heading to a Trentemoller concert at the weekend. Trentemoller is a favourite for a few in the group:

[Trentemoller] (https://open.spotify.com/artist/4O71i7ke5iIBX6RNSFoZbS)

The below outlines a more detailed standup report, that was filled in less rigorously as time went on, signifying both a growing intensity of time pressure, but also a more iterative communication technique which involved the team communicating frequently with each other, working across the same table.

### Technology Spotlight

    "bcrypt": "^1.0.2",
    "express-jwt": "^5.1.0",
    "jsonwebtoken": "^7.2.1",
We used bcrupt, Express-JWT and jsonwebtoken in our user authentication system

Alongside these we used a NODE/EXPRESS back end with angular front end, and a General Assembly gulpfile which helped to streamline our production efforts.


### Selection mechanism lesson

The main challenge in this project was generating a compelling UI - Luca in particular suffered from a lack of planning on the groups' behalf after working hard on various promising event selection features (mimicking the tinder swipe amongst others) but none were fluid enough to justify their use unfortunately. In future working together more clearly on a solution that might work with more open communication might have enabled us to be more successful in this area.

### Notifications and messaging shout-out

The request and messaging system was a big win for the group and application, back end masterminded by Tom, and implemented into the UI by Sarah.

### Branding shout-out

The logo and branding was owned by Remyce who used the M as a pair holding hands - touch of genius.

### Conclusion

Whilst this app may never reach the hights of the meetup/tinder inspiration it is drawn from, the functionality held within is formidable given our experience before the sprint (never built an app in angular, as a group or with github), and showcases many of the technologies that we had covered. A satisfying result to a hard weeks work.


### Standup Report

#### Saturday, 28th January 2017

##### **12pm Stand-up**

Discussion over feedback from Alex and Rane last night to refine the concept.

##### Idea

People matching service bringing people together using an activity to help people choose a good fit.

##### Key points of refinement and exploration for MVP


* Matching a host to an attendee based on a common shared experience or event.
* One on one (more post-MVP)
* Enable host/attendee two way communication.
* One event per page, swipe through to see selection.
* Events ordered by proximity
* Matching process


##### Key points for post-MVP

* Ability to hide 'seen' events
* Mark unseen events
* Developed two way communication to be more like messaging

#### Afternoon aims:

* Draft data model
* Build boilerplate MEAN stack
* Build boilerplate ANGULAR front-end
* Draft user journey and pseudocode

#### Afternoon conclusion:

* Draft data model - completed
* Build boilerplate MEAN stack - completed
* Build boilerplate ANGULAR front-end - completed (as much as possible
* Draft user journey and pseudocode - completed (as much as possible)

#### Aims by Monday:

* Back-end authentication (Tom)
* Front-end authentication (Luca)
* User journey and wireframing (all team)

- - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - -


### Monday, 30th January 2017

##### **10am Stand-up**

Further discussion about the core functionality of the app. Various options there, to be explored when the MVP aspects of events and users have been developed.

Sarah displayed the work on the wire frames. Charlie with some site structure.

Remyce and Sarah working on back end controllers.
Charlie working on seed data and the models, how they work with each other.

Luca and Tom on front-end.

##### **2pm Stand-up**

Sarah working on user show pages on front end while Luca works on event show front end.

Tom and Charlie to work through seeds and starting matching engine.

### Tuesday, 31st January 2017

##### **10am Stand-up**

Conclusions

Tom

### Wednesday, 1st February 2017

Aims

By lunch:

Remyce - image upload research and implementation
Luca - continued carousel implementation
Tom - Completing the matching service
Sarah - ironing out event add and drop down menu
Charlie - Requests show on event page, and events show on user page.

=======

Main blocker is the matching engine and respective seed data. Spent the morning working through the issues with alex to build up a solid core.

##### **2pm Stand-up**

Tom working on matching logic whilst the rest split up jobs on the front-end for Angular.

### Wednesday, 1st February 2017

##### **10am Stand-up**

The matching system almost up and running. Front end needs to be wired up.

Remyce working on image upload
Luca working on swipe mechanism
Tom working on getting requests to show on profile page
Sarah working on
Charlie getting event add and register working once more

- - - - - - - - - - - -

Beyond here we were all hands on deck working on the details of getting the app complete.
